---
title: Dream Progress (I had a lucid dream!)
date: 2021-03-16
---

For many years of my life, I have been trying to master the art of
lucid dreaming. I haven't been very successful. For the most part I
simply had no dream recall at all! I kept trying to keep a dream
journal, kept repeating various mantras before I went to sleep and
during the day. Nothing was working. Looking back I'm sure that the
cause of my failure has been due to a lack of structure. I never
turned any of the aforementioned practices into ingrained habits. I
wasn't organizing my life. I was sleeping whenever, waking up
whenever, not making it a habit to just write down and structure
anything important about my life, let alone cataloging my dreams. I am
now scheduling everything, recording any idea that seems somewhat
valuable, waking up early and exercising, logging my progress, and
trying to cut out any time wasters. I'll take another opportunity to
praise [[http://www.orgmode.org][Org-mode]] for helping me achieve all this.

* I just had a lucid dream!
The trigger for the dream was me thinking "OK better remember this for
the dream journal!.. wait I'm actually IN the dream right now! I'm
going to try to fly!" I levitated a bit, and the dream ended shortly
after, but it was still an amazing experience! I started the dream
journal on 2021-03-09, and just one week later my brain seems to be
making leaps and bounds in the dream-recall department.

* I recently started making an effort to be more organized
I decided to get organized in order to take control of my life in
order to better make progress and be a better person. I decided to
keep a dream journal, not in order to lucid dream, but to maximize the
value of the time I spend asleep. I'd rather not let 8 hours of my day
be a complete waste.

** This stress-free approach to sleep and dream mastery is the key for me
I used to keep myself up trying various lucid dream induction
techniques. Wake Back To Bed, Wake Induced Lucid Dreams, Mnemonic
Induced Lucid Dreams, etc. Sitting in bed chanting instead of relaxing
basically. It just didn't work. Now I simply want to ensure I don't
miss out on any good ideas in my dreams. The dream recall started to
skyrocket after setting out to do this.

* I hope this helps you if you are looking to take control of your dreams!
